PHASE GOALS
===========
The goal of Phase 1 is to develop a rules-based natural language processing (NLP) system built around Storm.  It will also develop a basic framework for how Tex Storm will work.

OVERVIEW
========
Simple rules-based NLP systems are the easiest to implement and, therefore, serve as a good starting point when developing a NLP system.  Here, Tex Storm will take cues from the General Architecture for Tex Engineering (GATE).  In particular, to help speed and guide development, GATE's A Nearly New Information Extraction (ANNIE) system will be replicated to work with Storm and take advantage of what it provides.  During this phase the starting framework for Tex Storm will be laid down with an eye towards the overall goals of the project.

THE GENERAL FRAMEWORK
=====================
In addition to being able to process text documents, Tex Storm is also meant to enable transformations of the text documents during processing as well as being able to work with non-text sources.  In this, the project will take heavy cues from how UIMA and UIMA-AS works.  To enable working with non-text sources, Tex Storm will utilize a CAS-like system, each with it's own subject of analysis (SofA).  By allowing for a single CAS to have multiple SofAs, it is possible to allow users to manipulate the SofAs during processing.  However, this must be done carefully as it may invalidate previous analysis.

One problem, however, is persistence of the information provided by the NLP system as a complete document so that it can be used in a useful manner.  Two possible methods can be used to solve this.  First, the various components that are generated by the chopping up of the document can be saved independently in a database.  Afterwards, the document can be extracted by getting all the database entries that make up the document.  This method is inelegant and can become very unwieldy for large documents or with a large number of ducments.  It is also excessively complex.  Second, the document can be reconstituted after all the processing is complete and then stored as a single document.  This makes is a much more elegant and simpler solution.  Additionally, specific information can be indexed seperately in the database, referencing the document, to facilitate searching and retrieval.  This is can be thought of as similar to UIMA's CAS Multiplication and CAS Merging capabilties.

RULES-BASED NLP
===============
As stated earlier, Tex Storm will initially seek to replicate GATE's ANNIE, but do so in a way to take advantage of Storm.  ANNIE consists of several components, but the main ones are:

- Segmenter
- Tokenizer
- Part of Speech (POS) Tagger
- Named Entity Recognizer (NER)

Of those components, the one that is the easiest to adapt to Storm is the segmenter.  In ANNIE, the segementer first finds the paragraphs and then the sentences.  Sending full paragraphs through the entire Storm topology is a viable solution, but still inefficient.  Much of the information that is used at this early level is contained at the level of sentences.  Therefore, it makes much more sense to use sentences as the base, discrete processing object.  Using sentences instead of paragraphs or the document as a whole will limit the amount of relationship information that can be extracted.  However, such processing may be too much to ask of a real-time processing system and may be better suited to batch processing.

Moving on from the Segmenter, the Tokenizer breaks down the sentences into words units to facilitate processing.  However, single words alone have very little meaning.  Therefore, instead of splitting up the sentence into words, the words will simply be annotated to the sentence instead.  Following the Tokenizer, the POS Tagger will do it's work, again on the sentence.  The POS tagger may be subdivided into smaller units to help processing if deemed necessary.  Finally, the sentences will be processed by the NER.
